So way back during lockdown when the Caves and Cliffs update for Minecraft 1.17 was announced, I came up with a bunch of cool ideas and enhancements. Unfortunately it doesn't look like any made it in, but hey, still the coolest update ever.


## Ideas for Minecraft 1.17

- Copper should be used in redstone, as it's known for conducting electricity (redstone). Maybe you could coat redstone dust with 4/8 copper to make it waterproof. That'd be super useful, and it wouldn't be too OP since Copper (at the time of writing) looks pretty difficult to collect large amounts of. redstone component crafting recipes could also include copper, either as a requirement or just as an alternative. For example, the piston crafting recipe could also be crafted with copper instead of iron. They could also add a new redstone component, maybe related to the Sculk Sensors, that would require copper to be crafted.
- The lightning rod's effectiveness should be based on its height - the higher the rod, the farther its range. This would give players an incentive to place the rod high, which is how it should work, rather than hiding it in a hole somewhere where you can't see it. It'd also be cool if the rod would degrade and oxidize over time, just like the copper blocks, and maybe even eventually break. Of course, this would be quite annoying but would kinda make sense - if you repeatedly weather something, it's probably going to shatter.
- Calcite is an amazing block, but it doesn't seem very accessible and easy to obtain in large amounts, even if the amethyst geodes are quite common. Perhaps they could be found in chunks throughout the overworld, sort of like a rarer granite/diorite/andesite, or even in the Nether, sort of similar to Quartz.
- A really cool feature would be if stalactites could grow. If you placed a calcite block with some water over it, a stalactite could slowly (and I mean very slowly - as fast as copper oxidizes) grow underneath it.
- Limestone pillars would also make total sense, especially if they decide to include smaller and less tall dripstone caves. If a stalactite and stalagmite generate touching each other, I think they should combine into a pillar. That'd be really cool and make caves feel so much more... scary, like you're walking into the mouth of a beast and the stalactites and stalagmites are its teeth and spit...
- Lush caves are great, but they're missing one thing: mossy stone. I don't even need to say anything.
- Similarly, cracked stone would be awesome for texturing builds more subtly. Andesite's great with stone, but it looks weathered and rough instead of cracked.
- Candles are amazing... but we need soul fire candles.
- You should be able to place more than one candle on a cake, because it just makes sense.
- New enchantment for boots (yes, even tho boots already have the most unique enchantments out of any piece of armour): Frost Melter (I'm sure they can come up with a better name), which, quite obviously, melts snow, particularly the powder snow, allowing players to traverse the new snowier mountains more easily.
- Bundles should go back to displaying the items with a visual rather than a list... obviously, not exactly the same as the old one, since that one was messy and you couldn't actually tell how much exactly there were of each item quickly; instead, they should do it more like VanillaTweaks, which creates a mini pop-up, like you've actually opened it.
- Villagers should be able to trade you emeralds for amethysts, since they're fairly valuable and seems like the sort of thing villagers would trade.
- I think observers should be able to detect players walking over amethyst blocks (I'm not sure if they do, but if they do - great) - basically, more methods of detecting a player without physical means (i.e. pressure plates, tripwires).